---
title: "Introduction"
date: 2020-12-18T09:02:00+02:00
weight: 1
# aliases: ["/first"]
tags: ["introduction", "first", "dev", "story"]
author: "Me"
showToc: false
TocOpen: false
draft: false
hidemeta: false
disableShare: true
comments: false
---

Who writes it why and what will be here? \
If the title does not ring a bell you need to see this: 
{{< youtube m1TnzCiUSI0 >}}

### Who

I am a software developer from Hungary. After a while I felt the urge to leave  my current enterprise position, and for some time already I had the idea to maybe try something abroad.

I started to work with software somewhere in high school, then I was intern, worked at small company, startup incubator, startup, bigger company and enterprise.

I got an offer from Malta, and it looked like "Ok this is the right combination of circumstances", so here we are.

### Why

When it became obvious I will move abroad I started to look for information. When it came to Malta and our special case, I did not find all the puzzle pieces I wanted to and even the existing ones were quite dated.

I also have other topics to share and I wanted to try `gohugo` for a while now.

### What

Primarily I want to fill the gaps what I found and mentioned in the *Why* section, so how does it look like to move to Malta, what are the good parts and the bad parts.
Next to that it is inevitable to know more about me trough this stories. Some of the posts may be tl;dr but I will try to separate the story part and the facts, but I think it is more understandable from a real person's point of view, with his perception, impressions.

I also have side projects. Yes my job can be so interesting I am doing it for myself not just for salary. Just like this page, I could have used `tumblr` or something, but I wanted to experiment with something I haven't tried yet and here comes `hugo` and `github pages`. (Yes it will have its own post.)
Therefore I will write some about my journey as a developer not only about my move to Malta.

The post are organized by *tags* so you can find the topics you are interested in.